Hi welcome back to the student.
So in this lecture what we're going to be doing is starting to build some helper functions that are
going to make our code that it'll be more nicer to read in our application more reusable code more usable.
So let's start with our redirect function here in functions right inside the admin folder.
So what I want to do here instead of redirecting here I'm going to be using this statement as it basically
we are exiting.
Whatever we are doing and we we are done with it.
OK we're not going to return anything.
This is more.
This is something a little bit more flexible a lot of people use this instead of the return OK.
And let me see what else do we do here.
We don't need to do anything else there let's just go ahead and create another function that we are
going to need later on.
So I'm just going to call this if it is method and of course we are going to be passing a method here
but let's just create a full parameter for it.
OK.
That way nothing coming here is No.
And it shows you know some best practices to do these depending on what you're using it for.
So I went and checked to see if this method here or this function is going to be something that's going
to check for 3:56 methods.
OK.
So our request met the like poles get.
So let's just say if let's just build this variable here.
And I believe his name is requests as you can see my ids already helping me feel some of this and we
don't know we don't want to have to typing this in uppercase all the time so I'm just going to use a
function SDR oper and which is going to uppercase everything that comes in our method basically.
OK.
And if we get that meant that there was going to return trousseaux there what that way we can use this
function in an if statement and we can say if this method is suppose we do that if it's not then we
return false.
So that's why we return false.
OK.
Just to make sure that we use that there result of this function in the IF statement in there or this
in the other side when we are calling the function.
OK let's create another method here.
I think it's good to have a is logged in method.
I mean function and basically we can do the same thing we did there we can use make sure that whatever's
coming is set actually.
And we've got to check on the session
analyst shoes check for their user role.
Now you can make this a little more flexible and make it so that when you pass a parameter in that way
you can always check whatever sesshin you won instead of making this in this way because this way we
only check it for use or Also every time we want to check something in the hope occasion.
We just change it here.
This is why I'm making this like this.
We just have to come to this function and change that user role here.
But if you want to make it so that way when you call the function you can use whatever you want then
pass a variable something there.
OK.
We're going to return true here.
And right below here we just just take this off.
We don't need it now.
Again you don't have to use that dashes and me using changing my ID a little bit just because I got
so used to PSP storm so let's go.
And if you could if you wanted you can come in this hour.
Is good that you come in your code.
OK.
Let's create another one.
See
let's create this one.
Let's just call it check if user this is going to do two things is going to check you the users logged
in and he's also going to redirect the user.
So check if user is logged in and redirect.
I know this is long but it's actually being very specific and that's good stuff in programming.
So we are going to accept some session here as a matter of fact.
You know what
we can use this function right here.
In an if statement so we can say well if he's logged in then I want to do something and what I want
to do is redirect to software.
And as a matter of fact let's make this a little more flexible let's just pass the redirect location
here.
So we wrecked location just in case you want to use this function for something else.
You want to redirect it somewhere else.
So we just pass out there and that's it OK.
I think we're done with this helper functions.
OK.
You just check it out.
You know if anything is not working properly we will fix later on.
Thank you so much for watching.
I'll see you in the next video.